the mind is its own place and in itself
can make a heaven of hell a hell of
heaven
john milton in a dirty prison cell
there lived a man who dedicated his
whole life to isolating himself
from the world as opposed to most
prisoners
he wasn't put there against his will
this man
voluntarily lived in a prison cell
knowing that he could walk out anytime
he wanted
nevertheless he never tried why should i
he told himself every time this annoying
voice tried to persuade him to leave
the world is a disgusting place he
uttered and
in here at least i'm safe he was a loner
without a doubt
but he didn't choose solitude because he
loved his own company
he did it because he hated the world
[Music]
every night he lay on a rotting mattress
witnessing cockroaches coming out of a
black hole in the ceiling
and running across the walls an enduring
stench came out of the toilet where he
washed as well
although he couldn't remember the last
time he did
next to his pillow was a door made of
steel bars
which led to a hallway apart from an
occasional cough
and some footsteps during the day the
hallway was
silent across from the door there was a
tiny window through which one could see
the streets
but he rarely looked outside as he
couldn't stand
the view of it there wasn't much in the
world that he didn't resent
he hated big crowds he hated shopping
centers he hated parties
he hated cars airplanes and other
motorized vehicles as he found him too
dangerous to use
still there was one thing that he deeply
enjoyed
the sea even though the sea was only a
few kilometers away from where he lived
yet never seen it again since late
childhood
years ago he had decided not to go there
anymore
as he had read about how the oceans are
contaminated and shorelines had become
glorified dumping grounds
he could contract a disease or die of
intoxication
the journey to the beach would be
dangerous as well
he heard about the many traffic
incidents and was terrified of dying in
a crash
or getting hit by a bus when crossing
the streets
so many troubles looming ahead he
thought
in his cell at least he was safe
nevertheless he never succeeded in
silencing his greatest enemy
that annoying voice that kept telling
him just to leave his cell
you should walk across town to the sea
said the voice
leave me alone why are you scared
no i'm not scared he answered then
what are you waiting for it's too risky
so you're scared let's make a deal
you go to the sea if it's truly as
catastrophic outside
as you believe it is you win and i'll
shut up forever
but if it's not i promise that you'll
have the most beautiful day of your life
now isn't that a win-win situation
what's the catch there is no catch
so do we have a deal i do not
seek confirmation for what i already
know
he answered so shut up and leave me
be the man who hated
the world believed that he had attained
something that others had not
the truth on a wall of a cell
he wrote all knowledge he had
accumulated about life
after years of collecting his wall of
knowledge had recently come to
completion
he now knew everything there was to know
and concluded
that the smartest thing he could do was
to never
ever leave his prison cell again
the wall had become his bible an
instruction manual
with all the answers which he consulted
whenever his enemy
the annoying voice appeared to him
this voice was a demon a bad influence
from the outside world
an infidel was out to seduce him into
doing stupid
things the words you are safe here
written on the wall with his own blood
sealed his life's work
this was his personal noble truth and a
mantra he repeated
every day his contact with the outside
world
had become scarce over the years
sporadically
an old friend or family member would
visit him to see
how he was doing and often ended up
listening to his long rant
that always in some way validated his
life decisions
but whenever his visitors spoke about
their own live endeavors he was quick to
refute their ideas
one day his sister told him that she was
going to travel to another continent
don't do it he uttered he had read about
exotic diseases
kidnapping plane crashes and all kinds
of other incidents that would make it
too dangerous to go
he also discouraged an old friend from
starting a business
tried to stop his brother from having
kids and dissuaded his nephew from
getting a driver's license
the reason for his objections was always
the same
it's too risky as a matter of fact
when he was younger he too wanted to
travel abroad
start a business and have kids he even
considered getting a driver's license
when his hatred of cars wasn't as fierce
as it was now
why don't you go for it then it's not
too late the annoying voice uttered
leave me alone will you
i see you're scared of course i'm scared
he yelled who wouldn't be haven't you
read the facts on the wall
don't you know the risks oh that silly
wall
the wall of knowledge i'm sure it makes
you feel very happy and safe here
damn right i feel safe here and don't
you think that i'll change my mind
my wall has saved me from more misery
than you can imagine
to his frustration the sacred words on
his wall didn't mean much to his
visitors
not only would they not take his advice
some even showed pity for his
pessimistic outlook
this made him resentful and he often
couldn't sleep because of it
the only delight he had in the misery of
not being taken seriously was a curious
little book
that he hid under his mattress with the
following words
written on its cover i told you so
in this book he wrote down all the times
that he was right
when his old friend went bankrupt he
wasn't surprised
when his brother who was cheated on by
his wife divorced her and
ended up paying child support he
chuckled and when his nephew crashed his
scar
he couldn't resist saying those magic
words that
so strongly affirmed his way of life
i told you so the days after he heard
about a tragedy that he had already
predicted he actually enjoyed the
cockroaches crawling through his ceiling
and the stench of rotten excrement this
again
confirmed that the world is indeed a
nightmare and that he made
the right decision to renounce it with a
passion
people who kept pushing their boulders
up the mountain like happy sisyphuses
no matter how often they rolled down
again he mocked relentlessly
looking at his precious wall he mumbled
bunch of fools
if they knew what i know they wouldn't
live so dangerously
at least i'm safe here secluded from
their folly
[Music]
on a summer day he received a letter
from his sister
before even opening it he already knew
that it would contain bad news
but it wasn't quite what he expected
from the other side of the world
his sister wrote to him that she
wouldn't return anytime soon
because of the pestilence that had
broken out at home
pestilence he frowned he quickly looked
out of his window
and saw people passing by wearing face
masks and police patrolling the streets
he made a phone call to his brother who
then informed him that the pestilence is
transmitted
by cockroaches and causes fever followed
by filling people's lungs with pus
until they can't breathe anymore and die
immediately he looked at the black hole
in the ceiling
he started to put out roach straps in
all corners of his cell
even though this killed many he wasn't
able to exterminate the whole nest
a few days later he woke up in the
morning with a crippling fever
his breathing was short and heavy he
looked at his wall and yelled
you lied to me you told me i was safe
here
he prayed for guidance but was answered
with silence
shortly after he fell asleep he dreamt
vividly
about how he walked out of his prison
cell across town
beyond the dykes towards the shore
when he woke up the sun was shining
through the little window of his cell
the door was wide open he felt a soft
wind coming through
and he heard the sound of seagulls he
got up
to his horror he discovered that his
precious wall of knowledge
was empty not a single word was left
his forehead started sweating profusely
because of the fever
when he looked through the doorway he
saw the waves of the ocean
was he delirious just before he stepped
out of his cell
the walls around him started to crumble
and the ceiling was launched
a thousand kilometers away into the sky
until it disappeared
like a shooting star the crawling of
cockroaches
had given way to the screeching of birds
the stench of excrement
to a joyful onshore wind and a rotting
mattress to
soft fine sand he felt the warmth of the
sun
and the salt air helped us breathing a
little behind him
he saw footprints in the sand of a
beautiful spotless beach
that led to the dykes and beyond he
looked at the sea
his painful breathing became heavier and
shorter
his lungs were filled with buzz he
whispered
this is not a safe place
to but then the sounds of seagulls
and ocean waves became more vibrant so
much so
that his fears and worries slid off his
shoulders and disappeared
and the pus in his lungs started to
dissipate
there was nothing left to solve nothing
to comprehend
there were no family or friends to
convince no
records to keep and no ideas to defend
what remained was the beauty of the sea
in an unsafe world
a heaven unfolding in hell
as he deeply took in the sight of an
ever stretching horizon
the ocean breeze the squawking seagulls
and the soft fine sand
below his feet the annoying voice that
had tormented him for so many years
came to the surface and said
i told you so thank you for watching
[Music]
so
you